# CS-300

The focus of the projects for this course was to look at different data structures. Looking at the different use cases, functionalities, and run-time we could analyze when they might be a good fit for our projects. In order to create the program listed in this repository, we had to create pseudocode to design our creation, break down the big O of each data structure, and then create a program using the one we thought would best fit our needs. 

In order to choose which data structure, I would like to use I considered usability, the big O, and the functionality of the data structure. I chose the binary search tree because it was relatively simple to use and the big O was O (log n). O (log n) is considered excellent, meaning the algorithm is extremely efficient. The goal of the project was to sort and print out a list of the courses in the Computer Science program in alphanumeric order. Binary trees sort its data alphanumerically on default, making my job easier as the developer. 

I was new to creating hash tables, binary trees, and linked lists before this course. There were many roadblocks I had with logic and runtime errors during the creation of my projects. For example, in the project mentioned above, I had issues with having the prerequisites properly mapped to the right course title. It took me some time to create a system using the commas as a reference point. During the solution process I had to fully map out in my head how the search tree would find the data and used other resources online, such as StackOverflow, to find examples that others had developed. 

Before this course, I only utilized arrays and vectors for any project I worked on. Being exposed to other options will allow me to choose a data structure that is more fit for the requirements of my project. There are many more for me to investigate even after this course that I am sure will prove to be useful.

Data structures are nice because they help keep data organized. Keeping a organized data structure will help a lot when adding in new variables and data sets. The projects in this course are also very well commented. When adding in new code, it feels wrong not to list out a function, loops, or conditional statement in simple terms for other developers. This was a necessary skill I needed more practice in anyways, so I am glad that's been the case over the length of this term.
